docs/mcp/crewai-mcp-integration.mdx, before:

---
title: 'MCP Servers as Tools in CrewAI'
description: 'Learn how to integrate MCP servers as tools in your CrewAI agents using the `crewai-tools` library.'
icon: 'plug'
---

## Overview

The [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) (MCP) provides a standardized way for AI agents to provide context to LLMs by communicating with external services, known as MCP Servers. 
The `crewai-tools` library extends CrewAI's capabilities by allowing you to seamlessly integrate tools from these MCP servers into your agents. 
This gives your crews access to a vast ecosystem of functionalities. For now, we support **Standard Input/Output** (Stdio) and **Server-Sent Events** (SSE) transport mechanisms. 

<Info>
We will also be integrating **Streamable HTTP** transport in the near future. 
Streamable HTTP is designed for efficient, bi-directional communication over a single HTTP connection.
</Info>

## Installation

Before you start using MCP with `crewai-tools`, you need to install the `mcp` extra `crewai-tools` dependency with the following command:

```shell
uv pip install 'crewai-tools[mcp]'
```

### Integrating MCP Tools with `MCPServerAdapter`

The `MCPServerAdapter` class from `crewai-tools` is the primary way to connect to an MCP server and make its tools available to your CrewAI agents. 
It supports different transport mechanisms, primarily **Stdio** (for local servers) and **SSE** (Server-Sent Events).You have two main options for managing the connection lifecycle:

### Option 1: Fully Managed Connection (Recommended)

Using a Python context manager (`with` statement) is the recommended approach. It automatically handles starting and stopping the connection to the MCP server.

**For a local Stdio-based MCP server:**

```python
from crewai import Agent, Task, Crew
from crewai_tools import MCPServerAdapter
from mcp import StdioServerParameters
import os

server_params=StdioServerParameters(
    command="uxv", # Or your python3 executable i.e. "python3"
    args=["mock_server.py"],
    env={"UV_PYTHON": "3.12", **os.environ},
)

with MCPServerAdapter(server_params) as tools:
    print(f"Available tools from Stdio MCP server: {[tool.name for tool in tools]}")

    # Example: Using the tools from the Stdio MCP server in a CrewAI Agent
    agent = Agent(
        role="Web Information Retriever",
        goal="Scrape content from a specified URL.",
        backstory="An AI that can fetch and process web page data via an MCP tool.",
        tools=tools,
        verbose=True,
    )
    task = Task(
        description="Scrape content from a specified URL.",
        expected_output="Scraped content from the specified URL.",
        agent=agent,
    )
    crew = Crew(
        agents=[agent],
        tasks=[task],
        verbose=True,
    )
    result = crew.kickoff()
    print(result)
```

**For a remote SSE-based MCP server:**

```python
from crewai_tools import MCPServerAdapter
from crewai import Agent, Task, Crew

server_params = {"url": "http://localhost:8000/sse"}

with MCPServerAdapter(server_params) as tools:
    print(f"Available tools from SSE MCP server: {[tool.name for tool in tools]}")

    # Example: Using the tools from the SSE MCP server in a CrewAI Agent
    agent = Agent(
        role="Web Information Retriever",
        goal="Scrape content from a specified URL.",
        backstory="An AI that can fetch and process web page data via an MCP tool.",
        tools=tools,
        verbose=True,
    )
    task = Task(
        description="Scrape content from a specified URL.",
        expected_output="Scraped content from the specified URL.",
        agent=agent,
    )
    crew = Crew(
        agents=[agent],
        tasks=[task],
        verbose=True,
    )
    result = crew.kickoff()
    print(result)
```

### Option 2: More control over the MCP server connection lifecycle

If you need finer-grained control over the MCP server connection lifecycle, you can instantiate `MCPServerAdapter` directly and manage its `start()` and `stop()` methods.

<Info>
You **MUST** call `mcp_server_adapter.stop()` to ensure the connection is closed and resources are released. Using a `try...finally` block is highly recommended.
</Info>

#### Stdio Transport Example (Manual)

```python
from mcp import StdioServerParameters
from crewai_tools import MCPServerAdapter
from crewai import Agent, Task, Crew
import os

stdio_params = StdioServerParameters(
    command="uvx", # Or your python3 executable i.e. "python3"
    args=["--quiet", "your-mcp-server@0.1.3"],
    env={"UV_PYTHON": "3.12", **os.environ},
)

mcp_server_adapter = MCPServerAdapter(server_params=stdio_params)
try:
    mcp_server_adapter.start() # Manually start the connection
    tools = mcp_server_adapter.tools
    print(f"Available tools (manual Stdio): {[tool.name for tool in tools]}")

    # Use 'tools' with your Agent, Task, Crew setup as in Option 1
    agent = Agent(
        role="Medical Researcher", 
        goal="Find recent studies on a given topic using PubMed.", 
        backstory="An AI assistant specialized in biomedical literature research.", 
        tools=tools,
        verbose=True 
    )
    
    task = Task(
        description="Search for recent articles on 'crispr gene editing'.",
        expected_output="A summary of the top 3 recent articles.",
        agent=agent
    )
    
    crew = Crew(
        agents=[agent],
        tasks=[task],
        verbose=True,
        process=Process.sequential
    )
    
    result = crew.kickoff()
    print(result)
finally:
    print("Stopping Stdio MCP server connection (manual)...")
    mcp_server_adapter.stop() # **Crucial: Ensure stop is called**
```


#### SSE Transport Example (Manual)

```python
from crewai_tools import MCPServerAdapter
from crewai import Agent, Task, Crew, Process
from mcp import StdioServerParameters


server_params = {"url": "http://localhost:8000/sse"}

try:
    mcp_server_adapter = MCPServerAdapter(server_params)
    mcp_server_adapter.start()
    tools = mcp_server_adapter.tools
    print(f"Available tools (manual SSE): {[tool.name for tool in tools]}")

    agent = Agent(
        role="Medical Researcher", 
        goal="Find recent studies on a given topic using PubMed.", 
        backstory="An AI assistant specialized in biomedical literature research.", 
        tools=tools,
        verbose=True 
    )
    
    task = Task(
        description="Search for recent articles on 'crispr gene editing'.",
        expected_output="A summary of the top 3 recent articles.",
        agent=agent
    )
    
    crew = Crew(
        agents=[agent],
        tasks=[task],
        verbose=True,
        process=Process.sequential
    )
    
    result = crew.kickoff()
    print(result)
finally:
    print("Stopping SSE MCP server connection (manual)...")
    mcp_server_adapter.stop() # **Crucial: Ensure stop is called**
```

## Staying Safe with MCP
<Warning>
Always ensure that you trust an MCP Server before using it.
</Warning>

#### Security Warning: DNS Rebinding Attacks
SSE transports can be vulnerable to DNS rebinding attacks if not properly secured. 
To prevent this:

1. **Always validate Origin headers** on incoming SSE connections to ensure they come from expected sources
2. **Avoid binding servers to all network interfaces** (0.0.0.0) when running locally - bind only to localhost (127.0.0.1) instead
3. **Implement proper authentication** for all SSE connections

Without these protections, attackers could use DNS rebinding to interact with local MCP servers from remote websites.

For more details, see the [MCP Transport Security](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/concepts/transports#security-considerations) documentation.

### Limitations
*   **Supported Primitives**: Currently, `MCPServerAdapter` primarily supports adapting MCP `tools`. 
Other MCP primitives like `prompts` or `resources` are not directly integrated as CrewAI components through this adapter at this time.
*   **Output Handling**: The adapter typically processes the primary text output from an MCP tool (e.g., `.content[0].text`). Complex or multi-modal outputs might require custom handling if not fitting this pattern.

Commit message:

feat: Add video tutorial to MCP integration docs for better developer experience - Add embedded YouTube video guide positioned after Overview section - Improve learning flow with context-first, visual-second approach - Enhance onboarding for MCP integration understanding

docs/mcp/crewai-mcp-integration.mdx, after:

---
title: 'MCP Servers as Tools in CrewAI'
description: 'Learn how to integrate MCP servers as tools in your CrewAI agents using the `crewai-tools` library.'
icon: 'plug'
---

## Overview

The [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) (MCP) provides a standardized way for AI agents to provide context to LLMs by communicating with external services, known as MCP Servers. 
The `crewai-tools` library extends CrewAI's capabilities by allowing you to seamlessly integrate tools from these MCP servers into your agents. 
This gives your crews access to a vast ecosystem of functionalities. For now, we support **Standard Input/Output** (Stdio) and **Server-Sent Events** (SSE) transport mechanisms. 

<Info>
We will also be integrating **Streamable HTTP** transport in the near future. 
Streamable HTTP is designed for efficient, bi-directional communication over a single HTTP connection.
</Info>

## Video Tutorial
Watch this video tutorial for a comprehensive guide on MCP integration with CrewAI:

<iframe
  width="100%"
  height="400"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TpQ45lAZh48"
  title="CrewAI MCP Integration Guide"
  frameborder="0"
  style={{ borderRadius: '10px' }}
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

## Installation

Before you start using MCP with `crewai-tools`, you need to install the `mcp` extra `crewai-tools` dependency with the following command:

```shell
uv pip install 'crewai-tools[mcp]'
```

### Integrating MCP Tools with `MCPServerAdapter`

The `MCPServerAdapter` class from `crewai-tools` is the primary way to connect to an MCP server and make its tools available to your CrewAI agents. 
It supports different transport mechanisms, primarily **Stdio** (for local servers) and **SSE** (Server-Sent Events).You have two main options for managing the connection lifecycle:

### Option 1: Fully Managed Connection (Recommended)

Using a Python context manager (`with` statement) is the recommended approach. It automatically handles starting and stopping the connection to the MCP server.

**For a local Stdio-based MCP server:**

```python
from crewai import Agent, Task, Crew
from crewai_tools import MCPServerAdapter
from mcp import StdioServerParameters
import os

server_params=StdioServerParameters(
    command="uxv", # Or your python3 executable i.e. "python3"
    args=["mock_server.py"],
    env={"UV_PYTHON": "3.12", **os.environ},
)

with MCPServerAdapter(server_params) as tools:
    print(f"Available tools from Stdio MCP server: {[tool.name for tool in tools]}")

    # Example: Using the tools from the Stdio MCP server in a CrewAI Agent
    agent = Agent(
        role="Web Information Retriever",
        goal="Scrape content from a specified URL.",
        backstory="An AI that can fetch and process web page data via an MCP tool.",
        tools=tools,
        verbose=True,
    )
    task = Task(
        description="Scrape content from a specified URL.",
        expected_output="Scraped content from the specified URL.",
        agent=agent,
    )
    crew = Crew(
        agents=[agent],
        tasks=[task],
        verbose=True,
    )
    result = crew.kickoff()
    print(result)
```

**For a remote SSE-based MCP server:**

```python
from crewai_tools import MCPServerAdapter
from crewai import Agent, Task, Crew

server_params = {"url": "http://localhost:8000/sse"}

with MCPServerAdapter(server_params) as tools:
    print(f"Available tools from SSE MCP server: {[tool.name for tool in tools]}")

    # Example: Using the tools from the SSE MCP server in a CrewAI Agent
    agent = Agent(
        role="Web Information Retriever",
        goal="Scrape content from a specified URL.",
        backstory="An AI that can fetch and process web page data via an MCP tool.",
        tools=tools,
        verbose=True,
    )
    task = Task(
        description="Scrape content from a specified URL.",
        expected_output="Scraped content from the specified URL.",
        agent=agent,
    )
    crew = Crew(
        agents=[agent],
        tasks=[task],
        verbose=True,
    )
    result = crew.kickoff()
    print(result)
```

### Option 2: More control over the MCP server connection lifecycle

If you need finer-grained control over the MCP server connection lifecycle, you can instantiate `MCPServerAdapter` directly and manage its `start()` and `stop()` methods.

<Info>
You **MUST** call `mcp_server_adapter.stop()` to ensure the connection is closed and resources are released. Using a `try...finally` block is highly recommended.
</Info>

#### Stdio Transport Example (Manual)

```python
from mcp import StdioServerParameters
from crewai_tools import MCPServerAdapter
from crewai import Agent, Task, Crew
import os

stdio_params = StdioServerParameters(
    command="uvx", # Or your python3 executable i.e. "python3"
    args=["--quiet", "your-mcp-server@0.1.3"],
    env={"UV_PYTHON": "3.12", **os.environ},
)

mcp_server_adapter = MCPServerAdapter(server_params=stdio_params)
try:
    mcp_server_adapter.start() # Manually start the connection
    tools = mcp_server_adapter.tools
    print(f"Available tools (manual Stdio): {[tool.name for tool in tools]}")

    # Use 'tools' with your Agent, Task, Crew setup as in Option 1
    agent = Agent(
        role="Medical Researcher", 
        goal="Find recent studies on a given topic using PubMed.", 
        backstory="An AI assistant specialized in biomedical literature research.", 
        tools=tools,
        verbose=True 
    )
    
    task = Task(
        description="Search for recent articles on 'crispr gene editing'.",
        expected_output="A summary of the top 3 recent articles.",
        agent=agent
    )
    
    crew = Crew(
        agents=[agent],
        tasks=[task],
        verbose=True,
        process=Process.sequential
    )
    
    result = crew.kickoff()
    print(result)
finally:
    print("Stopping Stdio MCP server connection (manual)...")
    mcp_server_adapter.stop() # **Crucial: Ensure stop is called**
```


#### SSE Transport Example (Manual)

```python
from crewai_tools import MCPServerAdapter
from crewai import Agent, Task, Crew, Process
from mcp import StdioServerParameters


server_params = {"url": "http://localhost:8000/sse"}

try:
    mcp_server_adapter = MCPServerAdapter(server_params)
    mcp_server_adapter.start()
    tools = mcp_server_adapter.tools
    print(f"Available tools (manual SSE): {[tool.name for tool in tools]}")

    agent = Agent(
        role="Medical Researcher", 
        goal="Find recent studies on a given topic using PubMed.", 
        backstory="An AI assistant specialized in biomedical literature research.", 
        tools=tools,
        verbose=True 
    )
    
    task = Task(
        description="Search for recent articles on 'crispr gene editing'.",
        expected_output="A summary of the top 3 recent articles.",
        agent=agent
    )
    
    crew = Crew(
        agents=[agent],
        tasks=[task],
        verbose=True,
        process=Process.sequential
    )
    
    result = crew.kickoff()
    print(result)
finally:
    print("Stopping SSE MCP server connection (manual)...")
    mcp_server_adapter.stop() # **Crucial: Ensure stop is called**
```

## Staying Safe with MCP
<Warning>
Always ensure that you trust an MCP Server before using it.
</Warning>

#### Security Warning: DNS Rebinding Attacks
SSE transports can be vulnerable to DNS rebinding attacks if not properly secured. 
To prevent this:

1. **Always validate Origin headers** on incoming SSE connections to ensure they come from expected sources
2. **Avoid binding servers to all network interfaces** (0.0.0.0) when running locally - bind only to localhost (127.0.0.1) instead
3. **Implement proper authentication** for all SSE connections

Without these protections, attackers could use DNS rebinding to interact with local MCP servers from remote websites.

For more details, see the [MCP Transport Security](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/concepts/transports#security-considerations) documentation.

### Limitations
*   **Supported Primitives**: Currently, `MCPServerAdapter` primarily supports adapting MCP `tools`. 
Other MCP primitives like `prompts` or `resources` are not directly integrated as CrewAI components through this adapter at this time.
*   **Output Handling**: The adapter typically processes the primary text output from an MCP tool (e.g., `.content[0].text`). Complex or multi-modal outputs might require custom handling if not fitting this pattern.
