docs/mcp/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: 'MCP Servers as Tools in CrewAI'
description: 'Learn how to integrate MCP servers as tools in your CrewAI agents using the `crewai-tools` library.'
icon: plug
---

## Overview

The [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) (MCP) provides a standardized way for AI agents to provide context to LLMs by communicating with external services, known as MCP Servers. 
The `crewai-tools` library extends CrewAI's capabilities by allowing you to seamlessly integrate tools from these MCP servers into your agents. 
This gives your crews access to a vast ecosystem of functionalities. 

We currently support the following transport mechanisms: 

- **Stdio**: for local servers (communication via standard input/output between processes on the same machine)
- **Server-Sent Events (SSE)**: for remote servers (unidirectional, real-time data streaming from server to client over HTTP)
- **Streamable HTTP**: for remote servers (flexible, potentially bi-directional communication over HTTP, often utilizing SSE for server-to-client streams)

## Video Tutorial
Watch this video tutorial for a comprehensive guide on MCP integration with CrewAI:

<iframe
  width="100%"
  height="400"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TpQ45lAZh48"
  title="CrewAI MCP Integration Guide"
  frameborder="0"
  style={{ borderRadius: '10px' }}
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

## Installation

Before you start using MCP with `crewai-tools`, you need to install the `mcp` extra `crewai-tools` dependency with the following command:

```shell
uv pip install 'crewai-tools[mcp]'
```

## Key Concepts & Getting Started

The `MCPServerAdapter` class from `crewai-tools` is the primary way to connect to an MCP server and make its tools available to your CrewAI agents. It supports different transport mechanisms and simplifies connection management.

Using a Python context manager (`with` statement) is the **recommended approach** for `MCPServerAdapter`. It automatically handles starting and stopping the connection to the MCP server.

```python
from crewai import Agent
from crewai_tools import MCPServerAdapter
from mcp import StdioServerParameters # For Stdio Server

# Example server_params (choose one based on your server type):
# 1. Stdio Server:
server_params=StdioServerParameters(
    command="python3", 
    args=["servers/your_server.py"],
    env={"UV_PYTHON": "3.12", **os.environ},
)

# 2. SSE Server:
server_params = {
    "url": "http://localhost:8000/sse", 
    "transport": "sse"
}

# 3. Streamable HTTP Server:
server_params = {
    "url": "http://localhost:8001/mcp", 
    "transport": "streamable-http"
}

# Example usage (uncomment and adapt once server_params is set):
with MCPServerAdapter(server_params) as mcp_tools:
    print(f"Available tools: {[tool.name for tool in mcp_tools]}")
    
    my_agent = Agent(
        role="MCP Tool User",
        goal="Utilize tools from an MCP server.",
        backstory="I can connect to MCP servers and use their tools.",
        tools=mcp_tools, # Pass the loaded tools to your agent
        reasoning=True,
        verbose=True
    )
    # ... rest of your crew setup ...
```
This general pattern shows how to integrate tools. For specific examples tailored to each transport, refer to the detailed guides below.

## Explore MCP Integrations

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card 
    title="Stdio Transport" 
    icon="server" 
    href="/mcp/stdio"
    color="#3B82F6"
  >
    Connect to local MCP servers via standard input/output. Ideal for scripts and local executables.
  </Card>
  <Card 
    title="SSE Transport" 
    icon="wifi" 
    href="/mcp/sse"
    color="#10B981"
  >
    Integrate with remote MCP servers using Server-Sent Events for real-time data streaming.
  </Card>
  <Card 
    title="Streamable HTTP Transport" 
    icon="globe" 
    href="/mcp/streamable-http"
    color="#F59E0B"
  >
    Utilize flexible Streamable HTTP for robust communication with remote MCP servers.
  </Card>
  <Card 
    title="Connecting to Multiple Servers" 
    icon="layer-group" 
    href="/mcp/multiple-servers"
    color="#8B5CF6"
  >
    Aggregate tools from several MCP servers simultaneously using a single adapter.
  </Card>
  <Card 
    title="Security Considerations" 
    icon="lock" 
    href="/mcp/security"
    color="#EF4444"
  >
    Review important security best practices for MCP integration to keep your agents safe.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Checkout this repository for full demos and examples of MCP integration with CrewAI! 👇

<Card 
title="GitHub Repository"
icon="github"
href="https://github.com/tonykipkemboi/crewai-mcp-demo"
target="_blank"
>
CrewAI MCP Demo
</Card>

## Staying Safe with MCP
<Warning>
Always ensure that you trust an MCP Server before using it.
</Warning>

#### Security Warning: DNS Rebinding Attacks
SSE transports can be vulnerable to DNS rebinding attacks if not properly secured. 
To prevent this:

1. **Always validate Origin headers** on incoming SSE connections to ensure they come from expected sources
2. **Avoid binding servers to all network interfaces** (0.0.0.0) when running locally - bind only to localhost (127.0.0.1) instead
3. **Implement proper authentication** for all SSE connections

Without these protections, attackers could use DNS rebinding to interact with local MCP servers from remote websites.

For more details, see the [Anthropic's MCP Transport Security docs](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/concepts/transports#security-considerations).

### Limitations
*   **Supported Primitives**: Currently, `MCPServerAdapter` primarily supports adapting MCP `tools`. 
Other MCP primitives like `prompts` or `resources` are not directly integrated as CrewAI components through this adapter at this time.
*   **Output Handling**: The adapter typically processes the primary text output from an MCP tool (e.g., `.content[0].text`). Complex or multi-modal outputs might require custom handling if not fitting this pattern.

Commit message:

docs: update recommendation filters for MCP and Enterprise tools

docs/mcp/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: 'MCP Servers as Tools in CrewAI'
description: 'Learn how to integrate MCP servers as tools in your CrewAI agents using the `crewai-tools` library.'
icon: plug
---

## Overview

The [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) (MCP) provides a standardized way for AI agents to provide context to LLMs by communicating with external services, known as MCP Servers. 
The `crewai-tools` library extends CrewAI's capabilities by allowing you to seamlessly integrate tools from these MCP servers into your agents. 
This gives your crews access to a vast ecosystem of functionalities. 

We currently support the following transport mechanisms: 

- **Stdio**: for local servers (communication via standard input/output between processes on the same machine)
- **Server-Sent Events (SSE)**: for remote servers (unidirectional, real-time data streaming from server to client over HTTP)
- **Streamable HTTP**: for remote servers (flexible, potentially bi-directional communication over HTTP, often utilizing SSE for server-to-client streams)

## Video Tutorial
Watch this video tutorial for a comprehensive guide on MCP integration with CrewAI:

<iframe
  width="100%"
  height="400"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TpQ45lAZh48"
  title="CrewAI MCP Integration Guide"
  frameborder="0"
  style={{ borderRadius: '10px' }}
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

## Installation

Before you start using MCP with `crewai-tools`, you need to install the `mcp` extra `crewai-tools` dependency with the following command:

```shell
uv pip install 'crewai-tools[mcp]'
```

## Key Concepts & Getting Started

The `MCPServerAdapter` class from `crewai-tools` is the primary way to connect to an MCP server and make its tools available to your CrewAI agents. It supports different transport mechanisms and simplifies connection management.

Using a Python context manager (`with` statement) is the **recommended approach** for `MCPServerAdapter`. It automatically handles starting and stopping the connection to the MCP server.

```python
from crewai import Agent
from crewai_tools import MCPServerAdapter
from mcp import StdioServerParameters # For Stdio Server

# Example server_params (choose one based on your server type):
# 1. Stdio Server:
server_params=StdioServerParameters(
    command="python3", 
    args=["servers/your_server.py"],
    env={"UV_PYTHON": "3.12", **os.environ},
)

# 2. SSE Server:
server_params = {
    "url": "http://localhost:8000/sse", 
    "transport": "sse"
}

# 3. Streamable HTTP Server:
server_params = {
    "url": "http://localhost:8001/mcp", 
    "transport": "streamable-http"
}

# Example usage (uncomment and adapt once server_params is set):
with MCPServerAdapter(server_params) as mcp_tools:
    print(f"Available tools: {[tool.name for tool in mcp_tools]}")
    
    my_agent = Agent(
        role="MCP Tool User",
        goal="Utilize tools from an MCP server.",
        backstory="I can connect to MCP servers and use their tools.",
        tools=mcp_tools, # Pass the loaded tools to your agent
        reasoning=True,
        verbose=True
    )
    # ... rest of your crew setup ...
```
This general pattern shows how to integrate tools. For specific examples tailored to each transport, refer to the detailed guides below.

## Filtering Tools

```python
with MCPServerAdapter(server_params) as mcp_tools:
    print(f"Available tools: {[tool.name for tool in mcp_tools]}")

    my_agent = Agent(
        role="MCP Tool User",
        goal="Utilize tools from an MCP server.",
        backstory="I can connect to MCP servers and use their tools.",
        tools=mcp_tools["tool_name"], # Pass the loaded tools to your agent
        reasoning=True,
        verbose=True
    )
    # ... rest of your crew setup ...
```
## Explore MCP Integrations

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card 
    title="Stdio Transport" 
    icon="server" 
    href="/mcp/stdio"
    color="#3B82F6"
  >
    Connect to local MCP servers via standard input/output. Ideal for scripts and local executables.
  </Card>
  <Card 
    title="SSE Transport" 
    icon="wifi" 
    href="/mcp/sse"
    color="#10B981"
  >
    Integrate with remote MCP servers using Server-Sent Events for real-time data streaming.
  </Card>
  <Card 
    title="Streamable HTTP Transport" 
    icon="globe" 
    href="/mcp/streamable-http"
    color="#F59E0B"
  >
    Utilize flexible Streamable HTTP for robust communication with remote MCP servers.
  </Card>
  <Card 
    title="Connecting to Multiple Servers" 
    icon="layer-group" 
    href="/mcp/multiple-servers"
    color="#8B5CF6"
  >
    Aggregate tools from several MCP servers simultaneously using a single adapter.
  </Card>
  <Card 
    title="Security Considerations" 
    icon="lock" 
    href="/mcp/security"
    color="#EF4444"
  >
    Review important security best practices for MCP integration to keep your agents safe.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Checkout this repository for full demos and examples of MCP integration with CrewAI! 👇

<Card 
title="GitHub Repository"
icon="github"
href="https://github.com/tonykipkemboi/crewai-mcp-demo"
target="_blank"
>
CrewAI MCP Demo
</Card>

## Staying Safe with MCP
<Warning>
Always ensure that you trust an MCP Server before using it.
</Warning>

#### Security Warning: DNS Rebinding Attacks
SSE transports can be vulnerable to DNS rebinding attacks if not properly secured. 
To prevent this:

1. **Always validate Origin headers** on incoming SSE connections to ensure they come from expected sources
2. **Avoid binding servers to all network interfaces** (0.0.0.0) when running locally - bind only to localhost (127.0.0.1) instead
3. **Implement proper authentication** for all SSE connections

Without these protections, attackers could use DNS rebinding to interact with local MCP servers from remote websites.

For more details, see the [Anthropic's MCP Transport Security docs](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/concepts/transports#security-considerations).

### Limitations
*   **Supported Primitives**: Currently, `MCPServerAdapter` primarily supports adapting MCP `tools`. 
Other MCP primitives like `prompts` or `resources` are not directly integrated as CrewAI components through this adapter at this time.
*   **Output Handling**: The adapter typically processes the primary text output from an MCP tool (e.g., `.content[0].text`). Complex or multi-modal outputs might require custom handling if not fitting this pattern.
