docs/concepts/processes.mdx, before:

---
title: Processes
description: Detailed guide on workflow management through processes in CrewAI, with updated implementation details.
icon: bars-staggered
---

## Understanding Processes
<Tip>
  Processes orchestrate the execution of tasks by agents, akin to project management in human teams. 
  These processes ensure tasks are distributed and executed efficiently, in alignment with a predefined strategy.
</Tip>

## Process Implementations

- **Sequential**: Executes tasks sequentially, ensuring tasks are completed in an orderly progression.
- **Hierarchical**: Organizes tasks in a managerial hierarchy, where tasks are delegated and executed based on a structured chain of command. A manager language model (`manager_llm`) or a custom manager agent (`manager_agent`) must be specified in the crew to enable the hierarchical process, facilitating the creation and management of tasks by the manager.
- **Consensual Process (Planned)**: Aiming for collaborative decision-making among agents on task execution, this process type introduces a democratic approach to task management within CrewAI. It is planned for future development and is not currently implemented in the codebase.

## The Role of Processes in Teamwork
Processes enable individual agents to operate as a cohesive unit, streamlining their efforts to achieve common objectives with efficiency and coherence.

## Assigning Processes to a Crew
To assign a process to a crew, specify the process type upon crew creation to set the execution strategy. For a hierarchical process, ensure to define `manager_llm` or `manager_agent` for the manager agent.

```python
from crewai import Crew, Process

# Example: Creating a crew with a sequential process
crew = Crew(
    agents=my_agents,
    tasks=my_tasks,
    process=Process.sequential
)

# Example: Creating a crew with a hierarchical process
# Ensure to provide a manager_llm or manager_agent
crew = Crew(
    agents=my_agents,
    tasks=my_tasks,
    process=Process.hierarchical,
    manager_llm="gpt-4o"
    # or
    # manager_agent=my_manager_agent
)
```
**Note:** Ensure `my_agents` and `my_tasks` are defined prior to creating a `Crew` object, and for the hierarchical process, either `manager_llm` or `manager_agent` is also required.

## Sequential Process

This method mirrors dynamic team workflows, progressing through tasks in a thoughtful and systematic manner. Task execution follows the predefined order in the task list, with the output of one task serving as context for the next.

To customize task context, utilize the `context` parameter in the `Task` class to specify outputs that should be used as context for subsequent tasks.

## Hierarchical Process

Emulates a corporate hierarchy, CrewAI allows specifying a custom manager agent or automatically creates one, requiring the specification of a manager language model (`manager_llm`). This agent oversees task execution, including planning, delegation, and validation. Tasks are not pre-assigned; the manager allocates tasks to agents based on their capabilities, reviews outputs, and assesses task completion.

## Process Class: Detailed Overview

The `Process` class is implemented as an enumeration (`Enum`), ensuring type safety and restricting process values to the defined types (`sequential`, `hierarchical`). The consensual process is planned for future inclusion, emphasizing our commitment to continuous development and innovation.

## Conclusion

The structured collaboration facilitated by processes within CrewAI is crucial for enabling systematic teamwork among agents. 
This documentation has been updated to reflect the latest features, enhancements, and the planned integration of the Consensual Process, ensuring users have access to the most current and comprehensive information.

Commit message:

Add parallel flow execution support
- Add parallel process type
- Implement parallel flow execution
- Add tests for parallel flows
- Update documentation

Fixes #2129

Co-Authored-By: Joe Moura <joao@crewai.com>

docs/concepts/processes.mdx, after:

---
title: Processes
description: Detailed guide on workflow management through processes in CrewAI, with updated implementation details.
icon: bars-staggered
---

## Understanding Processes
<Tip>
  Processes orchestrate the execution of tasks by agents, akin to project management in human teams. 
  These processes ensure tasks are distributed and executed efficiently, in alignment with a predefined strategy.
</Tip>

## Process Implementations

- **Sequential**: Executes tasks sequentially, ensuring tasks are completed in an orderly progression.
- **Hierarchical**: Organizes tasks in a managerial hierarchy, where tasks are delegated and executed based on a structured chain of command. A manager language model (`manager_llm`) or a custom manager agent (`manager_agent`) must be specified in the crew to enable the hierarchical process, facilitating the creation and management of tasks by the manager.
- **Parallel**: Enables concurrent execution of multiple flows, allowing transitions from one flow to multiple parallel flows for improved task parallelization. Parallel execution is automatically handled using asyncio for optimal performance.
- **Consensual Process (Planned)**: Aiming for collaborative decision-making among agents on task execution, this process type introduces a democratic approach to task management within CrewAI. It is planned for future development and is not currently implemented in the codebase.

## The Role of Processes in Teamwork
Processes enable individual agents to operate as a cohesive unit, streamlining their efforts to achieve common objectives with efficiency and coherence.

## Assigning Processes to a Crew
To assign a process to a crew, specify the process type upon crew creation to set the execution strategy. For a hierarchical process, ensure to define `manager_llm` or `manager_agent` for the manager agent.

```python
from crewai import Crew, Process

# Example: Creating a crew with a sequential process
crew = Crew(
    agents=my_agents,
    tasks=my_tasks,
    process=Process.sequential
)

# Example: Creating a crew with a hierarchical process
# Ensure to provide a manager_llm or manager_agent
crew = Crew(
    agents=my_agents,
    tasks=my_tasks,
    process=Process.hierarchical,
    manager_llm="gpt-4o"
    # or
    # manager_agent=my_manager_agent
)
```
**Note:** Ensure `my_agents` and `my_tasks` are defined prior to creating a `Crew` object, and for the hierarchical process, either `manager_llm` or `manager_agent` is also required.

## Sequential Process

This method mirrors dynamic team workflows, progressing through tasks in a thoughtful and systematic manner. Task execution follows the predefined order in the task list, with the output of one task serving as context for the next.

To customize task context, utilize the `context` parameter in the `Task` class to specify outputs that should be used as context for subsequent tasks.

## Hierarchical Process

Emulates a corporate hierarchy, CrewAI allows specifying a custom manager agent or automatically creates one, requiring the specification of a manager language model (`manager_llm`). This agent oversees task execution, including planning, delegation, and validation. Tasks are not pre-assigned; the manager allocates tasks to agents based on their capabilities, reviews outputs, and assesses task completion.

## Process Class: Detailed Overview

The `Process` class is implemented as an enumeration (`Enum`), ensuring type safety and restricting process values to the defined types (`sequential`, `hierarchical`, `parallel`). The consensual process is planned for future inclusion, emphasizing our commitment to continuous development and innovation.

## Parallel Process

The parallel process type enables concurrent execution of multiple flows, leveraging Python's asyncio for efficient task parallelization. When using parallel execution:

- Multiple start methods are executed concurrently
- Listeners can run in parallel when triggered by the same method
- State consistency is maintained through thread-safe operations
- Execution timing and order are preserved where necessary

Example of parallel flow execution:
```python
from crewai import Crew, Process

# Create a crew with parallel process
crew = Crew(
    agents=my_agents,
    tasks=my_tasks,
    process=Process.parallel
)
```

## Conclusion

The structured collaboration facilitated by processes within CrewAI is crucial for enabling systematic teamwork among agents. 
This documentation has been updated to reflect the latest features, enhancements, and the planned integration of the Consensual Process, ensuring users have access to the most current and comprehensive information.
