src/crewai_tools/tools/firecrawl_crawl_website_tool/README.md, before:

# FirecrawlCrawlWebsiteTool

## Description

[Firecrawl](https://firecrawl.dev) is a platform for crawling and convert any website into clean markdown or structured data.

## Installation

- Get an API key from [firecrawl.dev](https://firecrawl.dev) and set it in environment variables (`FIRECRAWL_API_KEY`).
- Install the [Firecrawl SDK](https://github.com/mendableai/firecrawl) along with `crewai[tools]` package:

```
pip install firecrawl-py 'crewai[tools]'
```

## Example

Utilize the FirecrawlScrapeFromWebsiteTool as follows to allow your agent to load websites:

```python
from crewai_tools import FirecrawlCrawlWebsiteTool

tool = FirecrawlCrawlWebsiteTool(url='firecrawl.dev')
```

## Arguments

- `api_key`: Optional. Specifies Firecrawl API key. Defaults is the `FIRECRAWL_API_KEY` environment variable.
- `url`: The base URL to start crawling from.
- `page_options`: Optional. 
  - `onlyMainContent`: Optional. Only return the main content of the page excluding headers, navs, footers, etc.
  - `includeHtml`: Optional. Include the raw HTML content of the page. Will output a html key in the response.
- `crawler_options`: Optional. Options for controlling the crawling behavior.
  - `includes`: Optional. URL patterns to include in the crawl.
  - `exclude`: Optional. URL patterns to exclude from the crawl.
  - `generateImgAltText`: Optional. Generate alt text for images using LLMs (requires a paid plan).
  - `returnOnlyUrls`: Optional. If true, returns only the URLs as a list in the crawl status. Note: the response will be a list of URLs inside the data, not a list of documents.
  - `maxDepth`: Optional. Maximum depth to crawl. Depth 1 is the base URL, depth 2 includes the base URL and its direct children, and so on.
  - `mode`: Optional. The crawling mode to use. Fast mode crawls 4x faster on websites without a sitemap but may not be as accurate and shouldn't be used on heavily JavaScript-rendered websites.
  - `limit`: Optional. Maximum number of pages to crawl.
  - `timeout`: Optional. Timeout in milliseconds for the crawling operation.

Commit message:

Fix: FireCrawl FirecrawlCrawlWebsiteTool for crawling. FireCrawl API does not recognize sent paramters (HTTPError: Unexpected error during start crawl job: Status code 400. Bad Request - [{'code': 'unrecognized_keys', 'keys': ['crawlerOptions', 'timeout'], 'path': [], 'message': 'Unrecognized key in body -- please review the v1 API documentation for request body changes'}]) because it has been updated to v1. I updated the sent parameters to match v1 and updated their description in the readme file

src/crewai_tools/tools/firecrawl_crawl_website_tool/README.md, after:

# FirecrawlCrawlWebsiteTool

## Description

[Firecrawl](https://firecrawl.dev) is a platform for crawling and convert any website into clean markdown or structured data.

## Installation

- Get an API key from [firecrawl.dev](https://firecrawl.dev) and set it in environment variables (`FIRECRAWL_API_KEY`).
- Install the [Firecrawl SDK](https://github.com/mendableai/firecrawl) along with `crewai[tools]` package:

```
pip install firecrawl-py 'crewai[tools]'
```

## Example

Utilize the FirecrawlScrapeFromWebsiteTool as follows to allow your agent to load websites:

```python
from crewai_tools import FirecrawlCrawlWebsiteTool

tool = FirecrawlCrawlWebsiteTool(url='firecrawl.dev')
```

## Arguments

- `api_key`: Optional. Specifies Firecrawl API key. Defaults is the `FIRECRAWL_API_KEY` environment variable.
- `url`: The base URL to start crawling from.
- `page_options`: Optional. 
  - `onlyMainContent`: Optional. Only return the main content of the page excluding headers, navs, footers, etc.
  - `includeHtml`: Optional. Include the raw HTML content of the page. Will output a html key in the response.
- `crawler_options`: Optional. Options for controlling the crawling behavior.
  - `maxDepth`: Optional. Maximum depth to crawl. Depth 1 is the base URL, depth 2 includes the base URL and its direct children and so on.
  - `limit`: Optional. Maximum number of pages to crawl.
  - `scrapeOptions`: Optional. Additional options for controlling the crawler.
    - `formats`: Optional. Formats for the page's content to be returned (eg. markdown, html, screenshot, links).
    - `timeout`: Optional. Timeout in milliseconds for the crawling operation.
