docs/how-to/custom-manager-agent.mdx, before:

---
title: Create Your Own Manager Agent
description: Learn how to set a custom agent as the manager in CrewAI, providing more control over task management and coordination.
icon: user-shield
---

# Setting a Specific Agent as Manager in CrewAI

CrewAI allows users to set a specific agent as the manager of the crew, providing more control over the management and coordination of tasks. 
This feature enables the customization of the managerial role to better fit your project's requirements.

## Using the `manager_agent` Attribute

### Custom Manager Agent

The `manager_agent` attribute allows you to define a custom agent to manage the crew. This agent will oversee the entire process, ensuring that tasks are completed efficiently and to the highest standard.

### Example

```python Code
import os
from crewai import Agent, Task, Crew, Process

# Define your agents
researcher = Agent(
    role="Researcher",
    goal="Conduct thorough research and analysis on AI and AI agents",
    backstory="You're an expert researcher, specialized in technology, software engineering, AI, and startups. You work as a freelancer and are currently researching for a new client.",
    allow_delegation=False,
)

writer = Agent(
    role="Senior Writer",
    goal="Create compelling content about AI and AI agents",
    backstory="You're a senior writer, specialized in technology, software engineering, AI, and startups. You work as a freelancer and are currently writing content for a new client.",
    allow_delegation=False,
)

# Define your task
task = Task(
    description="Generate a list of 5 interesting ideas for an article, then write one captivating paragraph for each idea that showcases the potential of a full article on this topic. Return the list of ideas with their paragraphs and your notes.",
    expected_output="5 bullet points, each with a paragraph and accompanying notes.",
)

# Define the manager agent
manager = Agent(
    role="Project Manager",
    goal="Efficiently manage the crew and ensure high-quality task completion",
    backstory="You're an experienced project manager, skilled in overseeing complex projects and guiding teams to success. Your role is to coordinate the efforts of the crew members, ensuring that each task is completed on time and to the highest standard.",
    allow_delegation=True,
)

# Instantiate your crew with a custom manager
crew = Crew(
    agents=[researcher, writer],
    tasks=[task],
    manager_agent=manager,
    process=Process.hierarchical,
)

# Start the crew's work
result = crew.kickoff()
```

## Benefits of a Custom Manager Agent

- **Enhanced Control**: Tailor the management approach to fit the specific needs of your project.
- **Improved Coordination**: Ensure efficient task coordination and management by an experienced agent.
- **Customizable Management**: Define managerial roles and responsibilities that align with your project's goals.

## Setting a Manager LLM

If you're using the hierarchical process and don't want to set a custom manager agent, you can specify the language model for the manager:

```python Code
from crewai import LLM

manager_llm = LLM(model="gpt-4o")

crew = Crew(
    agents=[researcher, writer],
    tasks=[task],
    process=Process.hierarchical,
    manager_llm=manager_llm
)
```

<Note>
Either `manager_agent` or `manager_llm` must be set when using the hierarchical process.
</Note>

Commit message:

docs: update LLM documentation and improve examples
- Update structured LLM calls section to correctly use Pydantic models
- Add warning about JSON response format requirements
- Add api_key parameters to all LLM examples using environment variables
- Update manager agent LLM recommendations
- Improve delegation documentation
- Add comprehensive parameter list to LLM examples

docs/how-to/custom-manager-agent.mdx, after:

---
title: Create Your Own Manager Agent
description: Learn how to set a custom agent as the manager in CrewAI, providing more control over task management and coordination.
icon: user-shield
---

# Setting a Specific Agent as Manager in CrewAI

CrewAI allows users to set a specific agent as the manager of the crew, providing more control over the management and coordination of tasks. 
This feature enables the customization of the managerial role to better fit your project's requirements.

## Using the `manager_agent` Attribute

### Custom Manager Agent

The `manager_agent` attribute allows you to define a custom agent to manage the crew. This agent will oversee the entire process, ensuring that tasks are completed efficiently and to the highest standard.

### Example

```python Code
import os
from crewai import Agent, Task, Crew, Process

# Define your agents
researcher = Agent(
    role="Researcher",
    goal="Conduct thorough research and analysis on AI and AI agents",
    backstory="You're an expert researcher, specialized in technology, software engineering, AI, and startups. You work as a freelancer and are currently researching for a new client.",
    allow_delegation=False,
)

writer = Agent(
    role="Senior Writer",
    goal="Create compelling content about AI and AI agents",
    backstory="You're a senior writer, specialized in technology, software engineering, AI, and startups. You work as a freelancer and are currently writing content for a new client.",
    allow_delegation=False,
)

# Define your task
task = Task(
    description="Generate a list of 5 interesting ideas for an article, then write one captivating paragraph for each idea that showcases the potential of a full article on this topic. Return the list of ideas with their paragraphs and your notes.",
    expected_output="5 bullet points, each with a paragraph and accompanying notes.",
)

# Define the manager agent
manager = Agent(
    role="Project Manager",
    goal="Efficiently manage the crew and ensure high-quality task completion",
    backstory="You're an experienced project manager, skilled in overseeing complex projects and guiding teams to success. Your role is to coordinate the efforts of the crew members, ensuring that each task is completed on time and to the highest standard.",
    allow_delegation=True,
)

# Instantiate your crew with a custom manager
crew = Crew(
    agents=[researcher, writer],
    tasks=[task],
    manager_agent=manager, # Set the custom manager agent
    process=Process.hierarchical,
)

# Start the crew's work
result = crew.kickoff()
```

## Benefits of a Custom Manager Agent

- **Enhanced Control**: Tailor the management approach to fit the specific needs of your project.
- **Improved Coordination**: Ensure efficient task coordination and management by an experienced agent.
- **Customizable Management**: Define managerial roles and responsibilities that align with your project's goals.

## Setting a Manager LLM

If you're using the hierarchical process and don't want to set a custom manager agent, you can specify the language model for the manager:

<Note>
Either `manager_agent` or `manager_llm` must be set when using the hierarchical process.
</Note>

```python Code
from crewai import Agent, Crew, Process, Task, LLM

manager_llm = LLM(
    model="gpt-4o",
    api_key=os.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY"),
)
...
# Define your agents & tasks here
...

# Instantiate your crew with a manager LLM
crew = Crew(
    agents=[researcher, writer],
    tasks=[task],
    process=Process.hierarchical,
    manager_llm=manager_llm # Set the manager LLM
)
```

## LLM Model Recommendations for Manager Agents

Not all LLM models perform equally well with delegation tasks. 
For best results with hierarchical processes and delegation, use more capable models.

Small models like `GPT-4o-mini` and smaller local models struggle with delegation to other agents. 

For example, based on our testing between `GPT-4o` and `GPT-4o-mini`:

- **Recommended**: `GPT-4o` works well for manager agents and delegation
- **Not Recommended**: `GPT-4o-mini` struggles with delegation to other agents
