docs/how-to/human-input-on-execution.mdx, before:

---
title: Human Input on Execution
description: Integrating CrewAI with human input during execution in complex decision-making processes and leveraging the full capabilities of the agent's attributes and tools.
icon: user-check
---

## Human input in agent execution

Human input is critical in several agent execution scenarios, allowing agents to request additional information or clarification when necessary. 
This feature is especially useful in complex decision-making processes or when agents require more details to complete a task effectively.

## Using human input with CrewAI

To integrate human input into agent execution, set the `human_input` flag in the task definition. When enabled, the agent prompts the user for input before delivering its final answer. 
This input can provide extra context, clarify ambiguities, or validate the agent's output.

### Example:

```shell
pip install crewai
```

```python Code
import os
from crewai import Agent, Task, Crew
from crewai_tools import SerperDevTool

os.environ["SERPER_API_KEY"] = "Your Key"  # serper.dev API key
os.environ["OPENAI_API_KEY"] = "Your Key"

# Loading Tools
search_tool = SerperDevTool()

# Define your agents with roles, goals, tools, and additional attributes
researcher = Agent(
    role='Senior Research Analyst',
    goal='Uncover cutting-edge developments in AI and data science',
    backstory=(
        "You are a Senior Research Analyst at a leading tech think tank. "
        "Your expertise lies in identifying emerging trends and technologies in AI and data science. "
        "You have a knack for dissecting complex data and presenting actionable insights."
    ),
    verbose=True,
    allow_delegation=False,
    tools=[search_tool]
)
writer = Agent(
    role='Tech Content Strategist',
    goal='Craft compelling content on tech advancements',
    backstory=(
        "You are a renowned Tech Content Strategist, known for your insightful and engaging articles on technology and innovation. "
        "With a deep understanding of the tech industry, you transform complex concepts into compelling narratives."
    ),
    verbose=True,
    allow_delegation=True,
    tools=[search_tool],
    cache=False,  # Disable cache for this agent
)

# Create tasks for your agents
task1 = Task(
    description=(
        "Conduct a comprehensive analysis of the latest advancements in AI in 2025. "
        "Identify key trends, breakthrough technologies, and potential industry impacts. "
        "Compile your findings in a detailed report. "
        "Make sure to check with a human if the draft is good before finalizing your answer."
    ),
    expected_output='A comprehensive full report on the latest AI advancements in 2025, leave nothing out',
    agent=researcher,
    human_input=True
)

task2 = Task(
    description=(
        "Using the insights from the researcher\'s report, develop an engaging blog post that highlights the most significant AI advancements. "
        "Your post should be informative yet accessible, catering to a tech-savvy audience. "
        "Aim for a narrative that captures the essence of these breakthroughs and their implications for the future."
    ),
    expected_output='A compelling 3 paragraphs blog post formatted as markdown about the latest AI advancements in 2025',
    agent=writer,
    human_input=True
)

# Instantiate your crew with a sequential process
crew = Crew(
    agents=[researcher, writer],
    tasks=[task1, task2],
    verbose=True,
    memory=True,
    planning=True  # Enable planning feature for the crew
)

# Get your crew to work!
result = crew.kickoff()

print("######################")
print(result)
```

Commit message:

Add feature to override _ask_human_input function in Task (#2419)
Co-Authored-By: Joe Moura <joao@crewai.com>

docs/how-to/human-input-on-execution.mdx, after:

---
title: Human Input on Execution
description: Integrating CrewAI with human input during execution in complex decision-making processes and leveraging the full capabilities of the agent's attributes and tools.
icon: user-check
---

## Human input in agent execution

Human input is critical in several agent execution scenarios, allowing agents to request additional information or clarification when necessary. 
This feature is especially useful in complex decision-making processes or when agents require more details to complete a task effectively.

## Using human input with CrewAI

To integrate human input into agent execution, set the `human_input` flag in the task definition. When enabled, the agent prompts the user for input before delivering its final answer. 
This input can provide extra context, clarify ambiguities, or validate the agent's output.

## Customizing human input sources

By default, human input is collected via the command line using the `input()` function. However, you can override this behavior by providing a custom function to handle human input from different sources:

```python
def get_input_from_api(final_answer: str) -> str:
    """Get human feedback from an API instead of CLI."""
    # Make an API call to get feedback
    response = requests.post("https://your-api.com/feedback", json={"answer": final_answer})
    return response.json()["feedback"]

task = Task(
    description="Analyze the latest market trends",
    expected_output="A detailed analysis of market trends",
    agent=analyst,
    human_input=True,
    ask_human_input=get_input_from_api  # Use the custom function
)
```

The custom function should:
- Accept a string parameter (the agent's final answer)
- Return a string (the human feedback)
- Return an empty string if the answer is acceptable and no further iterations are needed

### Example:

```shell
pip install crewai
```

```python Code
import os
from crewai import Agent, Task, Crew
from crewai_tools import SerperDevTool

os.environ["SERPER_API_KEY"] = "Your Key"  # serper.dev API key
os.environ["OPENAI_API_KEY"] = "Your Key"

# Loading Tools
search_tool = SerperDevTool()

# Define your agents with roles, goals, tools, and additional attributes
researcher = Agent(
    role='Senior Research Analyst',
    goal='Uncover cutting-edge developments in AI and data science',
    backstory=(
        "You are a Senior Research Analyst at a leading tech think tank. "
        "Your expertise lies in identifying emerging trends and technologies in AI and data science. "
        "You have a knack for dissecting complex data and presenting actionable insights."
    ),
    verbose=True,
    allow_delegation=False,
    tools=[search_tool]
)
writer = Agent(
    role='Tech Content Strategist',
    goal='Craft compelling content on tech advancements',
    backstory=(
        "You are a renowned Tech Content Strategist, known for your insightful and engaging articles on technology and innovation. "
        "With a deep understanding of the tech industry, you transform complex concepts into compelling narratives."
    ),
    verbose=True,
    allow_delegation=True,
    tools=[search_tool],
    cache=False,  # Disable cache for this agent
)

# Create tasks for your agents
task1 = Task(
    description=(
        "Conduct a comprehensive analysis of the latest advancements in AI in 2025. "
        "Identify key trends, breakthrough technologies, and potential industry impacts. "
        "Compile your findings in a detailed report. "
        "Make sure to check with a human if the draft is good before finalizing your answer."
    ),
    expected_output='A comprehensive full report on the latest AI advancements in 2025, leave nothing out',
    agent=researcher,
    human_input=True
)

task2 = Task(
    description=(
        "Using the insights from the researcher\'s report, develop an engaging blog post that highlights the most significant AI advancements. "
        "Your post should be informative yet accessible, catering to a tech-savvy audience. "
        "Aim for a narrative that captures the essence of these breakthroughs and their implications for the future."
    ),
    expected_output='A compelling 3 paragraphs blog post formatted as markdown about the latest AI advancements in 2025',
    agent=writer,
    human_input=True
)

# Instantiate your crew with a sequential process
crew = Crew(
    agents=[researcher, writer],
    tasks=[task1, task2],
    verbose=True,
    memory=True,
    planning=True  # Enable planning feature for the crew
)

# Get your crew to work!
result = crew.kickoff()

print("######################")
print(result)
```
