docs/tools/filewritetool.mdx, before:

---
title: File Write
description: The `FileWriterTool` is designed to write content to files.
icon: file-pen
---

# `FileWriterTool`

## Description

The `FileWriterTool` is a component of the crewai_tools package, designed to simplify the process of writing content to files. 
It is particularly useful in scenarios such as generating reports, saving logs, creating configuration files, and more. 
This tool supports creating new directories if they don't exist, making it easier to organize your output.

## Installation

Install the crewai_tools package to use the `FileWriterTool` in your projects:

```shell
pip install 'crewai[tools]'
```

## Example

To get started with the `FileWriterTool`:

```python Code
from crewai_tools import FileWriterTool

# Initialize the tool
file_writer_tool = FileWriterTool()

# Write content to a file in a specified directory
result = file_writer_tool._run('example.txt', 'This is a test content.', 'test_directory')
print(result)
```

## Arguments

- `filename`: The name of the file you want to create or overwrite.
- `content`: The content to write into the file.
- `directory` (optional): The path to the directory where the file will be created. Defaults to the current directory (`.`). If the directory does not exist, it will be created.

## Conclusion

By integrating the `FileWriterTool` into your crews, the agents can execute the process of writing content to files and creating directories. 
This tool is essential for tasks that require saving output data, creating structured file systems, and more. By adhering to the setup and usage guidelines provided, 
incorporating this tool into projects is straightforward and efficient.

Commit message:

docs: enhance FileWriterTool documentation
- Add cross-platform compatibility details
- Highlight UTF-8 encoding support
- Emphasize Windows compatibility
- Add recommendation for users experiencing file writing issues

Part of #2015

Co-Authored-By: Joe Moura <joao@crewai.com>

docs/tools/filewritetool.mdx, after:

---
title: File Write
description: The `FileWriterTool` is designed to write content to files.
icon: file-pen
---

# `FileWriterTool`

## Description

The `FileWriterTool` is a component of the crewai_tools package, designed to simplify the process of writing content to files with cross-platform compatibility (Windows, Linux, macOS). 
It is particularly useful in scenarios such as generating reports, saving logs, creating configuration files, and more. 
This tool handles path differences across operating systems, supports UTF-8 encoding, and automatically creates directories if they don't exist, making it easier to organize your output reliably across different platforms.

## Installation

Install the crewai_tools package to use the `FileWriterTool` in your projects:

```shell
pip install 'crewai[tools]'
```

## Example

To get started with the `FileWriterTool`:

```python Code
from crewai_tools import FileWriterTool

# Initialize the tool
file_writer_tool = FileWriterTool()

# Write content to a file in a specified directory
result = file_writer_tool._run('example.txt', 'This is a test content.', 'test_directory')
print(result)
```

## Arguments

- `filename`: The name of the file you want to create or overwrite.
- `content`: The content to write into the file.
- `directory` (optional): The path to the directory where the file will be created. Defaults to the current directory (`.`). If the directory does not exist, it will be created.

## Conclusion

By integrating the `FileWriterTool` into your crews, the agents can reliably write content to files across different operating systems. 
This tool is essential for tasks that require saving output data, creating structured file systems, and handling cross-platform file operations. 
It's particularly recommended for Windows users who may encounter file writing issues with standard Python file operations.

By adhering to the setup and usage guidelines provided, incorporating this tool into projects is straightforward and ensures consistent file writing behavior across all platforms.
