docs/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
description: Get started with CrewAI - Install, configure, and build your first AI crew
icon: wrench
---

<Note>
  **Python Version Requirements**

  CrewAI requires `Python >=3.10 and <3.13`. Here's how to check your version:
  ```bash
  python3 --version
  ```

  If you need to update Python, visit [python.org/downloads](https://python.org/downloads)
</Note>

CrewAI uses the `uv` as its dependency management and package handling tool. It simplifies project setup and execution, offering a seamless experience.

If you haven't installed `uv` yet, follow **step 1** to quickly get it set up on your system, else you can skip to **step 2**.

<Steps>
    <Step title="Install uv">
      - **On macOS/Linux:**

        Use `curl` to download the script and execute it with `sh`:

        ```shell
        curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
        ```
        If your system doesn't have `curl`, you can use `wget`:

        ```shell
        wget -qO- https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
        ```

      - **On Windows:**

        Use `irm` to download the script and `iex` to execute it:

        ```shell
        powershell -ExecutionPolicy ByPass -c "irm https://astral.sh/uv/install.ps1 | iex"
        ```
        If you run into any issues, refer to [UV's installation guide](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) for more information.
    </Step>

    <Step title="Install CrewAI 🚀">
      - Run the following command to install `crewai` CLI:
        ```shell
        uv tool install crewai
        ```
          <Warning>
            If you encounter a `PATH` warning, run this command to update your shell:
            ```shell
            uv tool update-shell
            ```
          </Warning>

      - To verify that `crewai` is installed, run:
        ```shell
        uv tool list
        ```
      - You should see something like:
        ```shell
        crewai v0.102.0
        - crewai
        ```
      - If you need to update `crewai`, run:
        ```shell
        uv tool install crewai --upgrade
        ```
      <Check>Installation successful! You're ready to create your first crew! 🎉</Check>
    </Step>
</Steps>

# Creating a CrewAI Project

We recommend using the `YAML` template scaffolding for a structured approach to defining agents and tasks. Here's how to get started:

<Steps>
  <Step title="Generate Project Scaffolding">
    - Run the `crewai` CLI command:
      ```shell
      crewai create crew <your_project_name>
      ```

    - This creates a new project with the following structure:
      <Frame>
      ```
      my_project/
      ├── .gitignore
      ├── knowledge/
      ├── pyproject.toml
      ├── README.md
      ├── .env
      └── src/
          └── my_project/
              ├── __init__.py
              ├── main.py
              ├── crew.py
              ├── tools/
              │   ├── custom_tool.py
              │   └── __init__.py
              └── config/
                  ├── agents.yaml
                  └── tasks.yaml
      ```
      </Frame>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Customize Your Project">
    - Your project will contain these essential files:
      | File | Purpose |
      | --- | --- |
      | `agents.yaml` | Define your AI agents and their roles |
      | `tasks.yaml` | Set up agent tasks and workflows |
      | `.env` | Store API keys and environment variables |
      | `main.py` | Project entry point and execution flow |
      | `crew.py` | Crew orchestration and coordination |
      | `tools/` | Directory for custom agent tools |
      | `knowledge/` | Directory for knowledge base |

    - Start by editing `agents.yaml` and `tasks.yaml` to define your crew's behavior.
    - Keep sensitive information like API keys in `.env`.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Run your Crew">
    - Before you run your crew, make sure to run:
      ```bash
      crewai install
      ```
    - If you need to install additional packages, use:
      ```shell
      uv add <package-name>
      ```
    - To run your crew, execute the following command in the root of your project:
      ```bash
      crewai run
      ```
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Enterprise Installation Options

<Note type="info">
For teams and organizations, CrewAI offers enterprise deployment options that eliminate setup complexity:

### CrewAI Enterprise (SaaS)
- Zero installation required - just sign up for free at [app.crewai.com](https://app.crewai.com)
- Automatic updates and maintenance
- Managed infrastructure and scaling
- Build Crews with no Code

### CrewAI Factory (Self-hosted)
- Containerized deployment for your infrastructure
- Supports any hyperscaler including on prem depployments
- Integration with your existing security systems

<Card title="Explore Enterprise Options" icon="building" href="https://crewai.com/enterprise">
  Learn about CrewAI's enterprise offerings and schedule a demo
</Card>
</Note>

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card
    title="Build Your First Agent"
    icon="code"
    href="/quickstart"
  >
    Follow our quickstart guide to create your first CrewAI agent and get hands-on experience.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Join the Community"
    icon="comments"
    href="https://community.crewai.com"
  >
    Connect with other developers, get help, and share your CrewAI experiences.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

Docs: Alphabetize sections, add YouTube video, improve layout

docs/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
description: Get started with CrewAI - Install, configure, and build your first AI crew
icon: wrench
---

## Video Tutorial
Watch this video tutorial for a step-by-step demonstration of the installation process:

<iframe
  width="100%"
  height="400"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-kSOTtYzgEw"
  title="CrewAI Installation Guide"
  frameborder="0"
  style={{ borderRadius: '10px' }}
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

## Text Tutorial
<Note>
  **Python Version Requirements**

  CrewAI requires `Python >=3.10 and <3.13`. Here's how to check your version:
  ```bash
  python3 --version
  ```

  If you need to update Python, visit [python.org/downloads](https://python.org/downloads)
</Note>

CrewAI uses the `uv` as its dependency management and package handling tool. It simplifies project setup and execution, offering a seamless experience.

If you haven't installed `uv` yet, follow **step 1** to quickly get it set up on your system, else you can skip to **step 2**.

<Steps>
    <Step title="Install uv">
      - **On macOS/Linux:**

        Use `curl` to download the script and execute it with `sh`:

        ```shell
        curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
        ```
        If your system doesn't have `curl`, you can use `wget`:

        ```shell
        wget -qO- https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
        ```

      - **On Windows:**

        Use `irm` to download the script and `iex` to execute it:

        ```shell
        powershell -ExecutionPolicy ByPass -c "irm https://astral.sh/uv/install.ps1 | iex"
        ```
        If you run into any issues, refer to [UV's installation guide](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) for more information.
    </Step>

    <Step title="Install CrewAI 🚀">
      - Run the following command to install `crewai` CLI:
        ```shell
        uv tool install crewai
        ```
          <Warning>
            If you encounter a `PATH` warning, run this command to update your shell:
            ```shell
            uv tool update-shell
            ```
          </Warning>

      - To verify that `crewai` is installed, run:
        ```shell
        uv tool list
        ```
      - You should see something like:
        ```shell
        crewai v0.102.0
        - crewai
        ```
      - If you need to update `crewai`, run:
        ```shell
        uv tool install crewai --upgrade
        ```
      <Check>Installation successful! You're ready to create your first crew! 🎉</Check>
    </Step>
</Steps>

# Creating a CrewAI Project

We recommend using the `YAML` template scaffolding for a structured approach to defining agents and tasks. Here's how to get started:

<Steps>
  <Step title="Generate Project Scaffolding">
    - Run the `crewai` CLI command:
      ```shell
      crewai create crew <your_project_name>
      ```

    - This creates a new project with the following structure:
      <Frame>
      ```
      my_project/
      ├── .gitignore
      ├── knowledge/
      ├── pyproject.toml
      ├── README.md
      ├── .env
      └── src/
          └── my_project/
              ├── __init__.py
              ├── main.py
              ├── crew.py
              ├── tools/
              │   ├── custom_tool.py
              │   └── __init__.py
              └── config/
                  ├── agents.yaml
                  └── tasks.yaml
      ```
      </Frame>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Customize Your Project">
    - Your project will contain these essential files:
      | File | Purpose |
      | --- | --- |
      | `agents.yaml` | Define your AI agents and their roles |
      | `tasks.yaml` | Set up agent tasks and workflows |
      | `.env` | Store API keys and environment variables |
      | `main.py` | Project entry point and execution flow |
      | `crew.py` | Crew orchestration and coordination |
      | `tools/` | Directory for custom agent tools |
      | `knowledge/` | Directory for knowledge base |

    - Start by editing `agents.yaml` and `tasks.yaml` to define your crew's behavior.
    - Keep sensitive information like API keys in `.env`.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Run your Crew">
    - Before you run your crew, make sure to run:
      ```bash
      crewai install
      ```
    - If you need to install additional packages, use:
      ```shell
      uv add <package-name>
      ```
    - To run your crew, execute the following command in the root of your project:
      ```bash
      crewai run
      ```
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Enterprise Installation Options

<Note type="info">
For teams and organizations, CrewAI offers enterprise deployment options that eliminate setup complexity:

### CrewAI Enterprise (SaaS)
- Zero installation required - just sign up for free at [app.crewai.com](https://app.crewai.com)
- Automatic updates and maintenance
- Managed infrastructure and scaling
- Build Crews with no Code

### CrewAI Factory (Self-hosted)
- Containerized deployment for your infrastructure
- Supports any hyperscaler including on prem depployments
- Integration with your existing security systems

<Card title="Explore Enterprise Options" icon="building" href="https://crewai.com/enterprise">
  Learn about CrewAI's enterprise offerings and schedule a demo
</Card>
</Note>

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card
    title="Build Your First Agent"
    icon="code"
    href="/quickstart"
  >
    Follow our quickstart guide to create your first CrewAI agent and get hands-on experience.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Join the Community"
    icon="comments"
    href="https://community.crewai.com"
  >
    Connect with other developers, get help, and share your CrewAI experiences.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
